today I'm going to give you two things
I'm going to teach you how to deadlift
and I'm going to give you a deadlift
program which if you follow you're going
to gain at least 29% strength in a 12we
program let me introduce you to one of
the strongest athletes on my team this
is Alex Godly strong Simon how much are
you weighing at the moment I'm on a diet
so I'm about 151 kilos very light 151 kg
in his second ever powerlifting
competition he became the number one
powerlifter in Australia alltime
Australian record holder he deed 400 kg
using this exact program that we're
giving you and now he's repeating this
same program and he's up to phase two
which is paused deficit deadlifts one of
my favorite deadlift variations to teach
you so many great things about
deadlifting and I'm going to go through
it every step of the way so that you can
learn to we're warming up Alex as strong
as he is he even likes to start warming
up with an empty barbell so all he's
doing is just pumping the blood through
his body warming up his core temperature
it's winter here in Sydney Australia
when it's a little bit colder outside
you need to spend a little bit more time
warming up so you feel good Alex
especially likes to start his sessions
with a little bit of sweat and he takes
his time a lot actually and I actually
like taking my time as well that's what
I encourage for everybody a lot of
people say warming up should be done
quickly and all of these things actually
all the strongest athletes on my team
really spend a lot of time warming up so
keeping it simple right now empty
barbell and then we're just going to go
plate plate plate so he's doing an RDL
first that doesn't really matter so
that's just not the technique that we're
going to be doing but then when we put
the first plate on which is going to be
40 kg plates so 60 kg so one plate on
each side 60 kg and two plates is 100
kilos then 140 180 I'm trying to just
think about my math now 180 220 now he
finished his last program on 220 which
was snatch grip deadlift from a deficit
that's the first phase of this program
and he did that for 10 sets of six reps
with a slow Ecentric Tempo now I'm going
to explain how I choose the phases of
the deadlift I like to end the last
phase on the strongest deadlift
variation or the deadlift variation that
you're going to use in competition so
Alex that's going to be a conventional
deadlift that's going to be the easiest
variation of the long-term plan which is
12 weeks we do each phase for four weeks
so the last four weeks is conventional
deadlift this is the four weeks before
that it's a little bit harder with the
longer range of motion because we're
standing on the deficit and we're adding
a pause and the phase before that is a
snatch grip deadlift from a deficit
which is even longer range of motion
than this one so that's how I like to
choose my exercises for all of the
different movements same with my squat
patterns and upper body exercises I like
to go hardest variation when we're
further away from competition then
gradually make the variation easier and
easier until we come to Peak phase and
we use the easiest strongest variation
so we're lifting the absolute most what
that also does is it guarantees that
from week one to the whole duration of
the program which is 12 weeks you're
going to be able to add weight to the
bar every single time you come to the
gym so we've got four weeks L programs
we add weight to the bar by following
this last YouTube video that I've posted
for you guys which is how I periodize
effort so go and have a look at that if
you want to know how I do my four-weekly
programs but then when we go from phase
one to phase two with an easier
variation it guarantees you're able to
lift a heavier weight and then in the
next phase phase three an easier
variation again which guarantees you're
going to add more weight to the bar
again so that's how we're going to do
this now let's have a look at set number
one with the first plate stands in his
comfortable stance which is unique to
everyone with me I like to stand with my
feet a lot closer but my hips are a lot
smaller than his so that's his
conventional stance his arms go on the
outside of that and if you have a look
the idea of this lift is to teach you a
number of things one how to take the
slack out of the bar a lot of the times
people love the grip and rip style of
deadlifting which you may have seen all
over social media I don't like that what
I like to do is encourage the lifter to
precisely lift the weight off the ground
by taking the slack out of the bar and
doing a pause off for the first inch or
so however the distance is like just the
first component that's what we're after
teaches the body how to stay tight under
load now this is how I like to think
about it look at the thickness of the
deficit it's the size of a bumper plate
doesn't really matter sometimes I like
to use an even smaller deficit than that
and if you lack Mobility I'll get him to
stand on a a 10 kg bumper plate which is
even thinner again but the objective of
this is just to pause it at the height
of that plate so a lot of people pause
it a little bit high it's pretty hard to
gauge exactly and it's totally fine but
the idea is just to pause it the height
of the deficit which is going to be the
exact height that he's going to be
deadlifting when he does a conventional
deadlift off the floor which these
olympic size plates and everything is 9
in height so that's the objective which
means we are strengthening the body
position exactly off the floor let's
have a look again so what he likes to do
he loves his warm-up as I said so he's
already done one set with this weight
we're going to do two sets of this
weight so have a look at what he's doing
he starts with the barbell in line with
his midfoot that's perfectly balanced
have a look at some of the cues that he
likes to use he pulls his armpits
towards his pelvis which allows him to
use his strong lats to keep his torso
rigid from start to finish the next
thing he's doing he braces his core
before he gently picks it up off the
ground he reaches the crown of his head
towards the ceiling little cues so
armpits the pelvis for the lats and
Crown of the head of the ceiling he does
that while he braces so he pushes into
the belt braces and then gently lifts it
off the ground just ideally the height
of the thickness of this plate pauses it
a second 2 seconds it doesn't matter too
much A lot of people like to do really
really long pauses I think that makes it
so you can't lift as heavy so it's a
little bit of a trade-off I still want
him to be lifting heavy but what I want
him to do is guide the weight off the
floor take all the momentum out of the
equation and then drive it so as you
know it strengthens the body off the
floor but it's also going to strengthen
the lockout and I'm going to explain how
in the next
set cuz most people when they do a
deadlift have a look at this off the
floor how tight he is and how rigid his
torso is going to be that's the perfect
position that's a really perfect
position what happens when people fail
their lock out is they usually pulled
out of position off the floor they'll
you'll see this happening and then when
they get to the lockout they can't
finish the lockout this emphasizes the
start position strengthens the hell out
of the start position and if you can
maintain that when you take the weight
off the ground it makes the lockout way
easier so not only are we strengthening
his body we're teaching his body how to
stay tight from start to finish and
that's how it strengthens your strength
off the floor and your strength off the
lockout so this is one of my bang for
your buck deadlift
variations next warm-up set our warm-up
strategy as you saw with the empty
barell he was doing like 15 reps and
then he did two sets of 60 kg and now we
start adding weight we do less and less
reps if you have a look at his head he's
sparkling he's got a little bit of sweat
so he's actually warm so it's not about
warming up now it's now about teaching
his body to accept the heavy weight so
140 kg we'll do this for two
reps armpits the pelvis slightly lifts
it off the ground so you know I don't
really care like I'm not going to get
him in trouble if he doesn't lift it the
exact height of this it doesn't matter
that much it's just the intention so his
intention is to just break the floor and
pause there for whatever it is a second
and that's perfect
technique I used to do everything
without it but
unfortunately this floor has been banged
up over time and uh it grips so it's
really hard to just slide the plates on
so now as we get heavier and heavier
just makes life so much easier to load
the plates but there's a few other
tricks that I can tell you if you don't
have one of those I'll show you on the
next set he's just added straps uh 140
kilog weight before was easy enough for
his bare hands I'm sure this is as well
but what I don't want here while we're
deadlifting his back is for his grip to
interfere with the strength he's not
competing for powerlifting competition
so he doesn't really need to hold on to
barbell for any reason uh and when
that's the case I actually like using
straps it's going to allow him to really
strengthen his back and his posterior
chain without grip being the limit in
fact
down one cue that I like to give people
see how he's got those pads on I like to
say I want to hear it sliding up your
shins that makes sure that you are
pulling the bar into your body and using
your lats from start to
finish did you hear that noise you may
not have because the camera is a bit far
away but that's what I want to hear I
want to hear the bar
going it tells me that he's sliding that
barbell up his shins and I'll tell you
something that happens a lot of the
times uh some people at the High level
even recommend you shouldn't let it
touch your shins because it's friction
and it slows it down all these things uh
with me actually as a learning tool I
think it's the best thing that you can
do keep it in contact with your shins I
want to hear it sliding up your shins
that's going to tell me that your lats
are on but also that you're keeping the
bar close to your body I'll tell you
what happens when you don't have shim
pads and when you're not sliding it up
your body it actually hurts when you
don't have shim pads and it stops people
from keeping it close and what happens
then is they stop using their lats they
let the bar drift away from their body
so when you don't use your lats it's a
much weaker position and when it drifts
away from your body it's weaker again so
if I could give one really big piece of
advice is use the shin pads which are
equivalent to NE sleevs so normally he
does wear KNE sleeves but right now he's
got actual shim protectors use your lats
and keep the bar in line with your
midfoot from start to finish that's the
most important cue if he was doing this
for a powerlifting competition I would
probably have him do it with his bare
hands because he will need to use his
grip strength in a powerlifting
competition and there's a few options
here there's three one I wouldn't even
consider it to be an option and that's
double overhand grip uh that's the
weakest by far the reason it's weak is
because the bar can roll out of your
hands no matter how strong your grip
strength is that is super weak not
advised the next grip that most people
use is called a mixed grip uh and that's
what I use in competition that's also
what Alex uses in competition um the
reason why it works is because you got
one hand over and one hand under and one
hand's rolling it One Direction and the
other one's rolling the other so it
doesn't roll at all and that's a very
effective grip the negative to that is
you can see people tearing their biceps
with the underhand grip so when youate
your hand which is the underhand grip it
increases the tension cu the bicep
attaches to the radius and when you
supernate it increases the tension here
and if they bend their elbow just a
little bit their bicep thinks that it's
supposed to be working to lift that
heavy weight and it's my bicep is not
heavy enough to lift 100 1880 kg uh and
most people's aren't but either way it's
not 180 kilos that's going to affect his
biceps it's more like 300 kg and plus
can very easily tear your biceps if you
do it wrong so that's why you've got to
really learn to relax your arms if
you're going to be doing that mix grip
the third grip which I consider to be
the strongest grip but the hardest one
to learn and that is a hook grip so if
you have a look at the best powerlifters
in the world and all these new world
records they're all being done with a
with a hook grip and what that is is
where you grab the bar in the normal
position and you grab your thumb so the
best way to grab your thumb is kind of
like two fingers dig your hands into the
bar here and grab your nail with with
your rud finger and then your four
finger on top and then these these two
fingers are kind of just hanging tight
and and that creates kind of like a hook
and it hurts your thumb a lot which
takes a lot of time to condition your
thumb so that it stops hurting but
either way that's the strongest grip I
used to think that it was advantageous
to use these things fingers to hold on
because you can grip you know like I
don't know 30 40 50 60 100 kilos with
these fingers so so use them but then I
saw uh the man with the biggest deadlift
bare hands in the world Dan griggsby
he's got a
4825 kg deadlift with a hook grip and I
saw his tutorial where he said just two
fingers and these these uh these two
fingers are really doing nothing I
thought hauh if I was going to take any
person's advice it would be his so
there's your hook grip two fingers the
other two are just relaxing coming along
for the ride one rep 220
kg same setup every single time it's the
same process he treats all of the
warm-up weights like it's the top
weight everything's perfectly
symmetrical he stance you could cut him
in half and it'll look the left would
look exactly like the right same with
his grip so that's the things that you
can control so I recommend you do
control
it big breath arm pits the pelvis crown
of the head of the ceiling Pause Drive
easy
peasy really nice uh wait wait
wait okay uh one bit of feedback that
I'm going to give Alex actually he's
moving very well he's a great deadlifter
of course he moves well um however one
bit of feedback that I'm going to give
him is when he drops the weight because
you're standing on a
deficit you think you're fixed in
position but if you drop the weight um
like a free fall from the top which is
what a lot of the times good deadlifters
do that we kind of control the Ecentric
but not very actually we don't even
control the Ecentric it's a controlled
drop and sometimes it can bounce out of
alignment and if it does bounce out of
alignment my advice to you was to
realign yourself and adjust your feet so
you're not uh crooked in any way cuz
that can be pretty dangerous actually I
tore my hamstring that way many years
ago I kind of picked it up and it
bounced a little bit when I dropped it
picked it up again bounced a little bit
more and it was you know every time I
bounced it it moved about a CM so not
much but then by the second rep uh you
know 2 cm and it was about this much
weight it was about 20060 kg uneven
picked up the weight tore my hamstring
so now I take a lot of care with that if
you pick up the weight and you drop it
and it bounces a little bit to the side
don't just pick it up from here adjust
your feet and take your time in between
each rep so now we're at 260 kg this is
his top set we're going to do four sets
four reps paused deficit dead lifts one
rep
[Music]
let's go bro big Focus one clean rep
let's
[Music]
go let's
go yes beautiful
right so each of these phases are 4
weeks long and the next phase as I
mentioned is the strongest pattern of
the entire long-term phase which is
conventional de from the floor so no
more deficit no more pauses just
straight up rip that heavyweight off the
floor now here's the thing we don't just
rip it like I said even though I just
said rip it we're teaching him all of
these tools such as taking the slack out
so I want Perfection off the ground I
want finesse I want t
the snatch grip Deli from a deficit
teaches you how to really Master leg
drive so we're learning all these
valuable lessons which with each of the
phases uh and then we're going to use
the same things that we've learned to
really perfect the technique so we come
into the last phase and yeah we've built
muscle we've built strength but we've
refined the hell out of our movement and
that's how you're going to get your 29%
at least in strength gains over the 12
weeks
technique brother
[Music]
technique slowly off the ground
slowly that's get on massive price
massive
price pump it hard pull it into your
shins pull it into your shins yes
perfect perfect perfect [__]
yeah into your
shins yeah
beautiful perfect into shins ni work yes
one more let's
go last one
in easy
yeah yeah brother per [__]
it beautiful love
[Music]
[Applause]
man we are very very very happy with how
that moved uh you know here's the thing
whenever we record our videos I can feel
how hard he's working but then when we
go back and have a look at the videos I
know that's going to look smooth for you
guys it's hard to get in position it's
hard to stay tight but then you're
rewarded instantly and if you have a
look at the video you guys will see
before even we do we're going to go and
have a look at the video and we're going
to do three more sets of that and 10
minute break 10-minute break actually so
he's warm-ups just so you know a lot of
people ask those questions how long is
the rest between warm-ups very minimal
and then as you get heavier and heavier
we take bigger and bigger breaks so his
last warm-up was one rep on this weight
uh and then we waited about 5 minutes
but now it's the top set so 260 for 4 uh
big guy lots of muscle the more muscle
you have and the heavier the weight that
you lift the more recovery you need so
uh 10 minutes A lot of people think
that's too long well the strongest guys
in the world will disagree so 10 minutes
and we're going to come back number two
[Music]
secondary exercise time the conventional
deadlift one of my favorite
exercises however it's very general when
it comes to building muscle of course it
does build a whole lot of muscle but
over his whole body so now what I like
to do is include other variations this
is a 90° hip extension uh something that
I like about it is it it isolates the
glutes a little bit better it
strengthens them in the fully shortened
position so a deadlift it's emphasizes
like the the hardest part is off the
ground and that's when the glutes are in
the stretch position which is excellent
but then when we get to the top of a
conventional deadlift is very little
load when the glutes are in the shorter
position now this emphasizes so it's not
much load here and as we get higher and
higher that's where the movement becomes
the most challenging where the glutes
are in the most shorten position so
those two exercises really complement
each other 4x4 conventional Deft pause
from a deficit three sets of 15 I like a
high rep range for this the back loves
High Reps but I don't like doing High
Reps on a complex Movement Like a
deadlift so this is where we save all of
our high rep work on the accessories so
three sets of 15 on a back extension
he's got a lot of body weight here look
how heavy his body is plus he's holding
25 kg you see a lot of skinny people
like me uh I can do a whole bunch of
weight but my upper body is I'm 100
kilos he's 150 kilos look how big the
guy is so uh for a lot of the big guys
out there it's pretty hard just doing
your own body weight so after that
deadlift you don't have to go that much
weight get a lot of blood flow in High
Reps hits a spot last exercise of the
day hamstring curls you got seated
hamstring curls and lying hamstring
curls seated is better because it puts
the hamstrings at it more of a stretch
but we only have a lying hamstring curl
so that's all we're going to use doesn't
mean it's bad because it's not as good
as seated but just telling you the facts
if you got access to a seated do that
something that I like about a hamstring
curl so challenges the hamstrings
through knee joint flexion which is
their second function we've only been
doing hip extension now if you
understand the hamstrings there's four
heads of the hamstrings on the inside of
the leg semiosis and semit tendonosis on
the outside of the leg is the biceps so
that's one muscle but bicep by means two
there's two heads the long head and the
short head and the short head doesn't
cross the hip joint so when you do hip
extension actions you're not touching
the short head at all so if all you do
for hamstrings development is rdl's dead
lays back extensions you're not touching
the short head of your biceps for moris
and I don't like to have any of his
muscles neglected at all so if you want
complete development that's a really
nice Trio of exercise
and that's all we've done today 4x4
deficit PA deadlifts 3x15 90° hip
extension and three sets of 10 reps on a
hamstring curl session is done what a
session just thought it' be valuable to
get a little bit of feedback from the
lifter um how you feel after
that I feel I very
feel thanks for watching download your
free deadlift
program where is
it okay in the description get your free
deadlift program in the description of
this video I Feel